{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 JoannaMTStd;\f1\froman\fcharset238 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12220\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 This thesis is an initial attempt to investigate the relationship between creativity and psychological problems. One of the main purposes of this thesis is to explore the possible (negative or positive) influence of mental illness with a particular reference to creativity. In search of books about this relationship I was immediately lost. There is no section that correlates these two subjects, you either have to be at the art section or the psychology section. A problem that essentially is the subject of my research and which actually has led me to my method of research. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs32 To find the line between these two subjects that have been trying to connect for years now, I have to first take a look at the two separately, finding the definition of creativity as well as the definition of mental stability.  To be able to extract the possible connections as well as the opposing arguments in these separate subjects. To find a definite answer for the question; what is creativity, proved to be difficult. We all see creativity in a different way and so our opinions on what creativity is differ.  \
To continue my search to answer the question is there a connection between creativity and mental illness/stability, I reviewed several studies on this matter. The results from these studies show that there is indeed an connection between the two. Studies in the past might have been doubtful, an explanation for this fact could be that in earlier studies creativity was directly linked to IQ. In more recent studies creativity is researched separately from IQ. In these more recent studies it shows that the connection is to be found. In the neurological research they found a resemblance between de mind of a creative person and a person that is suffering form a psychosis. This makes the case of the existence of the connection between creativity and mental stability even stronger. The connection is also found in the research of several artists in the past such as Van Gogh and Picasso, these great artist had psychiatrical problems as well as the creative mind. These artist projected and used there mental state to create some of the most famous artworks in the world. \
In an attempt to look critical at my won work during my periods of depression and anxiety was quiet difficult. Clearly there is a difference in the work that is produced during a depressive state and the work that is made during a positive period. But for me to declare which is better can not be objective.\
In conclusion: the connection does exist. Whether the psychological problems are a stimulation for the creative mind is unclear. It might be an endless source of inspiration but often makes the life of the artists difficult. }